A Brief Guide to Samaya Commitment

by Lala Sonam Chödrup

Homage to Vajrasattva!

Whenever we receive an empowerment for any yidam deity, the samaya commitment is crucial to
the ripening of the real essence of the empowerment within our mindstream.

Consider an empowerment for Mañjuśrī. In general terms, to avoid the ten non-virtuous actions
and carry out the ten virtuous actions serves as a foundation. Then, on that basis, you
must regard the guru as Mañjuśrī in person, and observe the following:

Commitments Related to Enlightened Mind

Never forget to cultivate loving kindness, compassion and relative bodhicitta, or to meditate
on absolute bodhicitta, emptiness and clear light. Guard the guru’s wisdom mind by avoiding
anything that might disturb it, as if your very life depended on it. Cherish, as you would
your own heart, whatever is agreeable to the guru’s wisdom mind, and exert yourself continually
in the yoga in which the guru, Mañjuśrī and your own mind merge inseparably.

Commitments Related to Enlightened Speech

Continuously recite dhāraṇī mantras, such as the Arapatsa.[1] Consider the speech of the guru
— even if he or she is an ordinary being — as the Buddha’s own word, because the guru surpasses
the buddhas in terms of kindness. Avoid contradicting anything the guru says, even
if it is seemingly unrelated to the Dharma. And it is crucial that you do not deviate even
slightly from any instructions that are directly related to the Dharma. Consider any critical
comments or reprimands as a Dharma teaching and take them to heart. If the guru is in
residence nearby, do not embark on anything independently without seeking his or her approval.
Whatever the guru says, guard it carefully as if your very life were at stake, and
carry it out unfailingly.

Commitments Related to Enlightened Body

View the guru as the very essence of Mañjuśrī in form and visualize him or her at the crown
of your head or in the centre of your heart. Never do anything that might harm even so much
as a single pore of the guru’s body. Avoid even stepping on the guru’s shadow. Regard all
the guru’s physical actions positively. Keep representations or symbols of the enlightened
body, speech and mind of the guru and Mañjuśrī , and do not show them to those who do not
share the same commitments. Practise the yoga of visualizing your own body as the deity.

In general, you must train in the pure perception of recognizing how all sentient beings, in
their inherent purity, are inseparable from Mañjuśrī’s enlightened body, speech and mind.
Cherish especially all those who hold the same commitment, for they are like your own vital
energy. Carry out whatever is agreeable to the guru’s body, speech and mind, and practise
the three means of bringing delight.[2] If there is anyone who acts in a way that conflicts
with the guru’s body, speech and mind, or who holds wrong views, or who is harmful, do
not react with anger, but use various means to avert any harm. Should this fail, avoid sharing
the meaning of mantra with such people. Do not stay in the same place as anyone whose
conduct conflicts with your own.

If you can practise in this way, you will swiftly gain accomplishment in this life, and there
will be no obstacle to the fulfilment of your wishes. This is the point on which all that
is positive in this and future lives depends, so it is crucial that you maintain your commitments
without ever allowing them to degenerate. It is said that if students receive the
guru’s threefold kindness[3] but then fail to maintain the samaya commitments, whatever
they do from then on — all further projects and activities — will be none other than a mistaken
path.

This is just a summary. You must look elsewhere for an elaborate explanation, but there are
infinite texts on the topic.

In response to a request from the attendant who holds the name of tulku, Losal Pema Özer, this
was written by the mantra practitioner Rigtsal Dorje.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2017.

Version: 1.1-20210804

i.e., the mantra Oṃ arapacana dhīḥ pronounced by Tibetans Om arapatsana dhih.  ↩The three ways
of delighting the guru are mentioned in The Words of My Perfect Teacher in Chapter 6, p.145
‘How to Follow a Spiritual Friend’: “The best way is known as the offering of practice,
and consists of putting whatever he teaches into practice with determination, disregarding
all hardship. The middling way is known as service with body and speech, and involves
serving him and doing whatever he needs you to do whether physically, verbally or mentally.
The lowest way is by material offerings, which means to please your teacher by giving him
material goods, food, money and so forth.”   ↩That is, the kindness of granting empowerment,
oral transmission and pith instructions.  ↩