Prayer of Aspiration Incorporating the Eight Thoughts of Great Beings Who Follow the Way of
the Mahāyāna
by Lala Sonam Chödrup

Homage to the Three Jewels!
dak ni nam shyik semchen tamche kyi
In time, may I eliminate all the sufferings
dukngal malü selwar ja nyam dang
Of each and every living being!
namshyik ulwé nyenpé semchen nam
In time, may I be able to bring those afflicted by poverty
jorwa chenpö né la jok nü nyam
To great wealth and affluence!
dé shyin gekmé yongsu drub gyur chik
May these aspirations be perfectly fulfilled without obstacle!

namshyik sha trak dang ché lü di yi
In time, may this body of flesh and blood
semchen kun gyi dön ché nü na nyam
Bring benefit to all living beings!
namshyik nyalwar yün ring né né kyang
In time, even if I must remain for long within the hells,
semchen kun dön ché nü nyampa sok
May I be able to bring benefit to all sentient beings!
dé shyin gekmé yongsu drub gyur chik
May these aspirations be perfectly fulfilled without obstacle!

namshyik jikten dang ni jikten lé
In time, with great worldly
depé jorwa chenpö semchen gyi
And supramundane wealth,
rewa yong su dzokpar ché nü nyam
May I be able to fulfil entirely the wishes of living beings!
dé shyin gekmé yongsu drub gyur chik
May this aspiration be perfectly fulfilled without obstacle!

namshyik sangyé nyi du gyur né ni
In time, having become awakened,
semchen kun gyi dukngal ngepa ru
May I be able to deliver all beings from suffering!
jinpar ché nü nyam sok gekmé du
May this come to pass without obstacle,
drub né dro dön pakmé jungwar shok
And bring unfathomable benefit and wellbeing!

semchen kun la penpa mi chépé
Being reborn in a way that brings no benefit to all,
kyewa dang ni döndam tongnyi kyi
Or relishing the experience of the ultimate, emptiness,
ro la chö ching lam gyi tab gokpa
So that the methods of the path are interrupted—
dé sok tab shé ya dral ma gyur chik
May skilful means and wisdom never part ways like this!

kyewo tamché tsimpar mi chépé
Throughout all my lives,
tsik dang shyen la penpar mi chépé
May I never take delight
tsowo dang ni lü dang sherab dang
In words that fail to satisfy beings,
nor dang wangchuk dang den shyen dak la
Or in ways of life, physical forms, intelligence,
nöpar chépa dak la ga chépa
Wealth or power that fail to benefit others,
tserab kun tu dendra ma gyur chik
Or in those who cause others harm.

semchen kun gyi dikpé drebu kun
May all the results of all the negative actions of all sentient beings
dak la min ching dak gi gewé dré
Ripen on me alone, and may all the results of my virtue
drowa semchen kun la min gyur né
Ripen on all living beings!
kun kyang ku sum drebu tobpar shok
And may all these beings attain the fruition of the three buddha-kāyas!

chok sum denpa luwa mepa dang
Through the infallible truth of the supreme Three Jewels,
jam dang nyingjé rinchen chang chub sem
And through the inconceivable force of love, compassion and jewel-like bodhicitta,
zabmö den nyi sam mi khyabpé tü
As well as the two profound levels of truth,
rang dön dralwé mönlam drub gyur chik
May this aspiration that is free from any selfish concern be fulfilled!

This was written by Draklha Dzong Khenpo Sonam Chödrup. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.

Version: 1.2-20211112